SLA liquidity (#1685)
vegaprotocol/specs: protocol/0014-ORDT-order_types.md

The order now behaves like a normal limit order and will leave the book if it trades away completely.

#### Amendment

* Amending the size of an iceberg order amends the total `remaining` quantity and leaves the `displayed quantity` unaffected unless the new remaining quanity is smaller than the current displayed quantity, in which case the displayed quantity is reduced to the total remaining quantity.

* Amending the size/quantity of an iceberg order does not cause it to lose time priority. 
This is because the increase applies to the `remaining` quantity and not to the `displayed quantity`.
This is allowed because the order will lose time priority on refresh, i.e. before the increased quantity is available to trade.

#### Auctions

* Icebergs can be entered or carried into auctions if the underlying TIF is supported. 

* Icebergs can trade in the auction uncrossing up to their current `displayed quantity` as for any other transaction that would cause a trade with an iceberg order.

* Icebergs are refreshed after an auction uncrossing if they traded to below their `minimum peak size`, according to the same rules as for normal execution.

#### APIs

> * The fields `displayed quantity`, `remaining`, `quantity`, `initial peak size`, `minimum peak size`, `refresh policy` must be exposed by data node APIs in addition to all normal fields for an order.

Reviewer: What is `refresh policy` ?
Reading the comments below, its either refresh policy == BLOCK_END or refresh policy == IMMEDIATELY

  * The refresh happens at the end of the transaction when the order becomes eligible for refresh.

  * On refresh `display quantity` is set to `min(remaining, initial peak size)`.

  * A refresh simulates a cancel/replace, which means that on refresh an iceberg order will always lose time priority relative to other orders at the same price.

  * If multiple iceberg orders need to be refreshed at the same time, they are refreshed in the order that their eligibility for refresh was triggered, so the iceberg that dropped below its `minimum peak size` first is refreshed first (even during the same transaction the sequence of execution must be respected).

* Once the remaining quantity is equal to the displayed quantity, no further refresh is possible.
The order now behaves like a normal limit order and will leave the book if it trades away completely.

* For an incoming order with size larger than the total displayed quantity at a given price level, the following procedure should be followed:
  
  * The incoming order trades with all visible volume at the price level, whether an iceberg order or a vanilla limit order

>   * If there is still remaining volume in the order once all visible volume at the price level is used up, the remaining quantity is split between the non-visible components of all iceberg orders at this level according to their remaining volumes. For example if there are three iceberg orders with remaining volume 200 lots, 100 lots and 100 lots, an order for 300 lots would be split 150 to the first order and 75 to the two 100 lot orders. 

Reviewer 2: Any preference on where we put the crumbs in the case where the distribution doesn't divide exactly? For example there is 100 left in the aggressive order and 3 icebergs with all equal remaining hidden volume so it'll be 33 each. Just stick the extra 1 onto the iceberg which is first in terms of time priority?

Author: Yes, let's. I'll update the spec.

  
  * If there are still remaining iceberg orders at this point, refresh their volumes and continue trading. If the incoming order uses up all iceberg orders at this level, continue with any remaining volume to the next price level.

#### Amendment

* Amending the size of an iceberg order amends the total `remaining` quantity and leaves the `displayed quantity` unaffected unless the new remaining quantity is smaller than the current displayed quantity, in which case the displayed quantity is reduced to the total remaining quantity.

* Amending the size/quantity of an iceberg order does not cause it to lose time priority.
This is because the increase applies to the `remaining` quantity and not to the `displayed quantity`.
This is allowed because the order will lose time priority on refresh, i.e. before the increased quantity is available to trade.

#### Auctions

* Icebergs can be entered or carried into auctions if the underlying TIF is supported.

> * Icebergs can trade in the auction uncrossing up to their current `displayed quantity` as for any other transaction that would cause a trade with an iceberg order.

Reviewer 2: (hopefully the last comment): if we have an iceberg order on each side of the book and uncross only with their visible volume when coming out of auction, they'll refresh and remain crossed. When in continuous trading we don't have this problem because an aggressive iceberg counts as its full volume.

Thoughts on what we can do? Do we have the notion of an "aggressor" when auction uncrossing? Does it make sense to "un-iceberg" one side while uncrossing?

Author: We don't have a notion of aggressor when uncrossing (no maker fee, remaining fees are split equally between both sides). 

I guess it makes more sense to trade the whole volume (not just visible) at uncrossing. If the party placing the iceberg doesn't want this they can mark it GFN.

Reviewer 3: Agree whole volume. 

It's all on the price level after all. It should be split into the peaks at their position on the book and the rest at lower time priority than everything else when executing. If the remainders of multiple icebergs sitt at the same prixe and are not fully used up the traded volume should be split between them pro-rata by their total total size.

That means the algo for doing execution in an auction should be able to reuse the one for executing against passive icebergs as it's the same.

Like an iceberg, most of the order is not visible to other traders.

After the full size of the visible portion of the order has traded away, the order is "refreshed" and reappears with its maximum display quantity.

This is repeated until the order is cancelled or expires, or its full volume trades away.

Some platforms also allow the display quantity to be randomised on each refresh to further frustrate traders trying to identify the existence of the iceberg order).

Vega, being a decentralised and fully transparent protocol, cannot (in its current form) achieve the hidden characteristic of iceberg orders. But it can do the rest.

Iceberg orders (or in other words, transparent iceberg orders) are still helpful, especially for market makers and in combination with pegged orders, as they allow a trader to remain competitively present on the order book through the refresh facility without needing to supply excessive volume into a large aggressive order.

#### Definitions

These terms are used to refer to fields on an order:

* `quantity` - the full initial size of the order on entry.

> * `displayed quantity` - the current displayed quantity, i.e. the amount of the remaining quantity that is active on the book and can be hit.

Reviewer 4: Is "quantity" not just "size" in the current API? Perhaps no point introducing another term?

Note that for a non-iceberg order, `displayed quantity == remaining`.

* `remaining` - the total quantity of the order remaining that could trade.

#### Creating iceberg orders

Iceberg orders are created by populating three additional fields on any valid persistent limit order:

> * `initial peak size` - this specifies the amount displayed and available on the order book for a new or newly refreshed iceberg order.

Reviewer 4: Maybe just "peak size" since it isn't only used on submission but also on refresh?

This is because the increase applies to the `remaining` quantity and not to the `displayed quantity`.
This is allowed because the order will lose time priority on refresh, i.e. before the increased quantity is available to trade.

#### Auctions

* Icebergs can be entered or carried into auctions if the underlying TIF is supported.

* Icebergs can trade in the auction uncrossing up to their full `remaining` amount as for any other transaction that would cause a trade with an iceberg order.
If the remainders of multiple icebergs sit at the same price and are not fully used up, the traded volume should be split between them pro-rata by their total total size. Any integer remainder should be allocated to the iceberg with the highest time priority.

* Icebergs are refreshed after an auction uncrossing if they traded to below their `minimum peak size`, according to the same rules as for normal execution.

#### APIs

* The fields `displayed quantity`, `remaining`, `quantity`, `initial peak size`, `minimum peak size`, `refresh policy` must be exposed by data node APIs in addition to all normal fields for an order.

> * An iceberg order refresh must generate an event bus event.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* An iceberg order refresh must generate an event of the event bus.
```

1. **Reduce-Only (True/False):** Only valid for Non-Persistent orders. Cannot be True at the same time as Post-Only. If set, order will only be executed if the outcome of the trade moves the trader's position closer to 0. In addition, a Reduce-Only order will not move a position to the opposite side to the trader's current position (e.g. if short, a Reduce-Only order cannot make the trader long as a result). If submitted as IOC, where the full volume would switch sides, only the amount required to move the position to 0 will be executed.

### 'Glassberg' transparent iceberg orders

> On centralised exchanges, icebergs are a type of order that enables a trader to make an order with a relatively small visible "display quantiy" and a larger hidden total size.

Author: ```suggestion
On centralised exchanges, icebergs are a type of order that enables a trader to make an order with a relatively small visible "display quantity" and a larger hidden total size.
```

#### Definitions

These terms are used to refer to fields on an order:

* `quantity` - the full initial size of the order on entry.

* `displayed quantity` - the current displayed quantity, i.e. the amount of the remaining quantity that is active on the book and can be hit.
Note that for a non-glassberg order, `displayed quantity == remaining`.

* `remaining` - the total quantity of the order remaining that could trade.

#### Creating glassberg orders

Glassberg orders are created by populating three additional fields on any valid persistent limit order:

* `initial peak size` - this specifies the amount displayed and available on the order book for a new or newly refreshed glassberg order.

* `minimum peak size` - this determines when a glassberg order is eligible for refresh.
The glassberg is refreshed any time the order's displayed quantity less than the minimum peak size.

* `refresh policy` - this specifies when a glassberg order that is eligible for refresh and has remaining volume >0 is refreshed:

>     * `IMMEDIATE` - the refresh occurs _after_ processing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to zero.

Reviewer 5: Thought, how does this interact with batch transactions? Our current rule is that multiple orders in a batch should execute as if each was an individual transaction. However with glassbergs this would mean that, for immediate refresh ones, you might well get a better price by splitting your order up into as many pieces as the batch allows. Do we care or just assume that’s still not a huge number of orders so probably ok?

Author: I think that's ok; as the submitter of the glassberg has the option to set `BLOCK_END` if they don't want this.

Reviewer 3: I think we have two issues I might like to prevent that this has highlighted to me:

1. If an `IMMEDTIATELY` refreshing glassberg (assuming not post only) is crossed and trades on entry it will refresh and trade again. For a large quantity/small peak against significant volume this could create a large number of loops. Better to treat a glassberg as its full remaining size on entry during aggressive execution (this does not conflict with "disaplayed" quantity as aggressive size that trades on entry is never displayed on the book).

2. Although this is different to the usual policy for batch orders, perhaps we should make clear that glassberg refreshes happen at transaction end (_strictly_ as specified). I think it is a fairness violation / abuse of batch orders to be able to atomically take more than the `initial peak size` in a single transaction.

Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: I updated to include the above btw, please shout if in disagreement with this

>     * `IMMEDIATE` - the refresh occurs _after_ processing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to zero.

Author: ```suggestion
    * `IMMEDIATE` - the refresh occurs _after_ processing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to less than minimum peak size.
```

>     * `BLOCK_END` - the rerresh occurs after processing the _entire block_ containing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to zero.

Reviewer 5: These should both be “decreased to less than minimum peak size” right?

>     * `BLOCK_END` - the rerresh occurs after processing the _entire block_ containing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to zero.

Author: ```suggestion
    * `BLOCK_END` - the rerresh occurs after processing the _entire block_ containing the transaction that depleted the display quantity to less than minimum peak size.
```

#### Validity

* The order's non-glassberg-related fields must be set so as to make a valid order.

* Any persistent TIF (GTC, GTT, GFA, GFN) can be a glassberg order.

* A glassberg order may have either an ordinary or pegged limit price. 
Market glassberg orders are not supported, even if with a persistent TIF.

* Glassbergs may be post only.

> * `initial peak size` must be greater than TODO

Author: ```suggestion
* `initial peak size` must be greater than or equal to minimum position size (i.e. minimum order size).
```

* When a glassberg order trades, both `remaining` and `displayed quantity` are reduced by the trade size.

* Glassberg orders can trade many times without refresh, reducing `displayed quantity` each time.
The order will not be refreshed after each trade while `displayed quantity ≥ minimum peak size`.

* The order will also not be refreshed within a block even if multiple trades occur or `displayed quantity == 0` if the refresh policy is set to `BLOCK_END`. 

* Glassberg orders never trade more than their `displayed quantity` at the start of the transaction, as the result of any one transaction.

* When `displayed quantity < minimum peak size` and `remaining > displayed quantity` the order will be refreshed:

    * The refresh either happens at the end of the transaction when the order became eligible for refresh, if the `refresh policy == IMMEDIATE`; or at the end of the block containing that transaction if the `refresh policy == BLOCK_END`

    * On refresh `display quantity` is set to `min(remaining, initial peak size)`.

* Once the remaning quantity is equal to the displayed quantity, no further refresh is possible.

> The order now behaves like a normal limit order and will leave the book if it trades away completely.

Author: I suppose on refresh all the other limit orders at that level have higher priority for execution (if we're doing the refresh at block end).

Reviewer 3: Yes - latest commit this AM clarifies this and also that as increasing size amendments add to remaining but not display quantity they *do not lose time priority* unlike for normal orders.

#### Amendment

* Amending the size of a glassberg order amends the total remaining quantity and leaves the displayed quantiy unaffected unless the new remaining quanity is smaller than the current displayed quantity, in which case the displayed quantity is reduced to the total remaining quantity.

#### Auctions

* Glassbergs can be entered or carried into auctions if the underlying TIF is supported. 

* Glassbergs can trade in the auction uncrossing up to their current size as for any other transaxction that would cause a trade.

* Glassbergs are refreshed after an auction uncrossing if they traded away, according to the same rules for the refresh policy as for normal execution.

#### APIs

* The fields `displayed quantity`, `remaining`, `quantity`, `initial peak size`, `minimum peak size`, `refresh policy` must be exposed by data node APIs in addition to all normal fields for an order.

* Glassberg refresh must generate an event bus event.

> 

Author: I would add a comment that an LP that meets their obligation via glassbergs that refresh at end of block will always meet the SLA commitment (though perhaps that's obvious as we're counting time for SLA and it never moves inside a block...).

Reviewer 3: Added the following explicitly to [0042](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1685/files#diff-71887ef730ec45323f5184892e551217f5e434a46bbabc0574a33a2a2d2d837aR230-R231):

> * Note that this happens _after_ any glassberg order refreshes, including those with `refresh policy == BLOCK_END`. This means that while a glassberg has sufficient `remaining` quantity, it will **never** be considered to be contributing less than its `minimum peak size` of liquidity.

Reviewer 3: The above note will be amended if we do [this](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1685#discussion_r1182395475)

Reviewer 3: Amended, the note now reads as below:

>   * Note that this happens _before_ any glassberg order refreshes with `refresh policy == BLOCK_END`, even if `k == N`, and after glassbergs refreshed with `refresh policy == IMMEDIATELY` that need refreshing as a result of transaction `k`. This means that while a glassberg has sufficient `remaining` quantity, it will **never** be considered to be contributing less than its `initial peak size` of liquidity if it's policy is `IMMEDIATELY`. A `BLOCK_END` glassberg will **never** be refreshed within before the SLA achievement is evaluated for that block, and can therefore only be guaranteed to be contributing at least `minimum peak size` of liquidity, even when it has plenty of remaining volume.

2. Amending an iceberg order to decrease size will decrease the total and remaining quantities and time priority of the order is not lost (<a name="0014-ORDT-024" href="#0014-ORDT-024">0014-ORDT-024</a>)
3. Amend an iceberg order to decrease size so that the displayed quantity is decreased. Total, displayed and remaining quantity is decreased, margin is recalculated and released and time priority is not lost (<a name="0014-ORDT-025" href="#0014-ORDT-025">0014-ORDT-025</a>)

#### Iceberg Order Cancellation

1. Cancelling an iceberg order will cancel the order, remove it from the order book , release margin and update order book to reflect the change (<a name="0014-ORDT-026" href="#0014-ORDT-026">0014-ORDT-026</a>)

#### Iceberg Order Execution

1. An aggressive iceberg order that crosses with an order where volume > iceberg volume, the iceberg order gets fully filled on entry, the iceberg order status is filled, the remaining quantity = 0. Atomic trades are generated if matched against multiple orders (<a name="0014-ORDT-027" href="#0014-ORDT-027">0014-ORDT-027</a>)

> 2. An aggressive iceberg order that crosses with an order where volume < iceberg volume. The initial display quantity is filled and the remaining volume is unfilled. Status of iceberg order is partially filled , the volume remaining = (quantity - initial volume) and the remaining volume sits on the book. When additional orders thar are submitted which consume the remaining volume on the iceberg order , the volume of the iceberg order is refreshed as and when the volume dips below the minimum peak size (<a name="0014-ORDT-028" href="#0014-ORDT-028">0014-ORDT-028</a>)

Reviewer 2: Normal orders which trade when aggressive and then sit on the book are ACTIVE so I don't think icebergs should be different (partially filled is only set for IOC orders)
```suggestion
2. An aggressive iceberg order that crosses with an order where volume < iceberg volume. The initial display quantity is filled and the remaining volume is unfilled. Status of iceberg order is active , the volume remaining = (quantity - initial volume) and the remaining volume sits on the book. When additional orders are submitted which consume the remaining volume on the iceberg order , the volume of the iceberg order is refreshed as and when the volume dips below the minimum peak size (<a name="0014-ORDT-028" href="#0014-ORDT-028">0014-ORDT-028</a>)
```

8. Wash trading is not permitted for iceberg orders. The same party has one iceberg order that sits at the back of the queue , another normal order in opposite direction , the iceberg at the back comes in front and matches either fully OR partially and gets rejected( <a name="0014-ORDT-034" href="#0014-ORDT-034">0014-ORDT-034</a>)
9. For a price level with multiple iceberg orders, if an aggressive order hits this price level, any volume greater than the displayed volume at a level is split proportionally between the hidden components of iceberg orders at that price level
   1. If there are three iceberg orders with remaining volume 200 lots, 100 lots and 100 lots, an order for 300 lots would be split 150 to the first order and 75 to the two 100 lot orders. (<a name="0014-ORDT-037" href="#0014-ORDT-037">0014-ORDT-037</a>)
   1. If there are three iceberg orders with remaining volume 200 lots, 100 lots and 100 lots, an order for 600 lots would be split 200 to the first order and 100 to the two 100 lot orders, with 200 lots then taking farther price levels. (<a name="0014-ORDT-038" href="#0014-ORDT-038">0014-ORDT-038</a>)

> 

Reviewer 4: TODO: Price level of a pegged iceberg order never changes during an execution of an incoming aggressive order (even as price levels get eaten up).
